---
layout: post
title: Week 12 - More of the Same
---

## What did you do the last week?

The last week wasn't anything particularly eventful. Classes didn't have
anything particularly new, and I mostly did homework this week. That being said,
I didn't get nearly enough vision done this week (mostly due to stupid
mistakes that took me ages to find). I also had some algebra homework to do,
which had a pretty interesting digression into the automorphisms (symmetries)
of the complex projective plane $$\mathbb{CP}^1$$. You can think of it
as the complex plane $$\mathbb{C}$$, with a point at infinity. Geometrically,
you can think of it as the complex plane $$\mathbb{C}$$ (equivalently
$$\mathbb{R}^2$$), but you wrapped it into a sphere by fixing a point at "infinity."
This isn't too far off, as $$\mathbb{CP}^1$$ is in some sense "the same" as the
sphere $$S^2$$ (which is the one you know) in the sense that they are *diffeomorphic*,
which is the mathematicians fancy term for saying that up to naming names, the two
spaces are equivalent. The reason it came up is that given two complex polynomials
$$p(x)$$ and $$q(x)$$, we can form the rational function $$p(x)/q(x)$$, which is
a function $$\mathbb{C} \to \mathbb{C} $$. Wait! What about when $$q(x) = 0$$?
Isn't the function not defined there? You're right -- I lied to you. But in some
sense when $$q(x) = 0$$, we have that the "function" $$p(x)/q(x)$$ should shoot
off to infinity. But wait! Didn't we just make something lke $$\mathbb{C}$$ with
a point at infinity? This explains that rational functions $$p(x) / q(x)$$ are
more naturally though of maps $$\mathbb{CP}^1 \to \mathbb{CP}^1 $$, which I thought
was cool. In fact, $$\mathbb{CP}^1$$ carries a lot of cool structure to it, which
makes it important in fields like algebraic geometry, complex geometry, and
differential geometry (can you tell I like geometry?), since it is something we call
a [Riemann Surface](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Riemann_surface).

## What's in your way?

I need to finish up vision this weekend since I didn't get enough done over
the week. In addition, there's some work for this final phase I need to do.
Most of our user stories concern frontend stuff, so I'll have to put in a
lot of work next week, and I'm a bit concerned that I won't have as much
time to refactor as I would like.

## What will you do next week?

I'll be having my weekly meeting with Neitzke, and I'm really excited for this one,
since we're talking about one of the fundamental invariants of Riemannian geometry,
which is curvature. In one or two dimensions, you have a good idea of what curvature means,
but when you get higher dimensional spaces, it turns out the most natural way
to think about it as a *tensor*. Intuitively, if you're standing on some manifold
(think some hilly region in Scotland or something), you have a few tangent vectors
to the hill you're standing on, which you feed into a machine called the
*curvature tensor* that tells you how steep the hill you're standing on is. In
addition, the talk for DRP (the Directed Reading Program) is fast approaching,
so I'll need to prepare for that.

On the CS side of things, I hopefully will have vision done so I won't have
to worry about it next week, and I plan to spend the majority of the week
working on the final phase of the project.

## What's my experience with the class?

This refactoring section is pretty interesting to me, since I often find myself
reorganizing code (when time permits), so I definitely appreciate this part
of the course. Some of the refactorings are a bit puzzling to me, and I don't
fully agree with some of the things we do, but I try my best to understand
the pros and cons of certain changes to the code. The refatoring we did on
Friday was very strange to me, since it seems like the process of creating a new
Price object every time we have a new type of movie seems much more difficult than
adding an additional case to a switch statement. I suspect that some of these
come from the use of Java, which is quite rigid. I was thinking some
function in Python that returns functions is probably the best way to handle
the refactoring, but I don't think such a mechanism exists in Java.

## Tip of the week

This might sound strange, but look for the symmetries of your code. I can already
sense that you're scratching your head as to what this means, so let me explain.
In mathematics, at an abstract level, symmetry captures the idea that certain
mathematical objects are invariant under certain transformations. For example,
the $$n$$-sphere $$S^n$$ sitting inside of $$\mathbb{R}^{n+1}$$ is invariant
under the action of the *orthogonal group* $$SO_n(\mathbb{R})$$, which is the
group of rotations of $$\mathbb{R}^{n+1}$$.

As it turns out, you can do a similar analysis with your code! When you're
thinking about how to implement something, think of what kind of properties it
should satisfy. Under what transformations (different parameters, different
contexts) should it be invariant? If you think about the symmetries the end
result should satisfy, this will be reflected in the organization and structure
of your code.
