---
layout: post
title: Week 6 - The Usual
---

## What did you do the last week?

This week wasn't anything too exciting. To be honest, it's just be the usual
work that I've been doing every week. Professor Neitzke was out of town this
week, so we had to conduct our weekly meeting online. We're rapidly approaching
the real meat and potatoes of what we wanted to cover this semester. The
first few weeks we've spent covering general differential geometry, and in a week
or two we will have the prerequisites to dive into Riemannian geometry. I've
also spent some time looking at the IDB2 specification, and I'm trying to plan out
how to approach the next phase of the project. Finally, I spent some time working
on vision. This assignment covers the k-means clustering algorithm and the Hough
Transform. I really like the idea behind the Hough Transform because it appeals
to the math half of my brain.

To illustrate the point of the Hough transform, consider this question --
What does the space of circles in $$\mathbb{R}^2$$ look like? What kind of
geometry does this space have? To answer this, let's think of what uniquely
characterizes a circle. The first things that popped into your mind are probably
the center and the radius. In this case, your intuition thought right! Therefore,
the space of circles is just $$\mathbb{R^3}$$, with the first component being
the first coordinate of the center, the second component being the second coordinate
of the center, and the third component being the radius. How does this help us?
Let's think about how the geometry in $$\mathbb{R}^2$$ corresponds to this space
of circles. What does a circle translate to? This is just a point in the space of circles
What does a point correspond to? Well if we had a fixed radius, the possible
centers of circles containing our point is just a circle in the space of circles.
What if we didn't know the radius? Then we would have a circle in Hough space
for every radius, which each radius getting larger. Sound familiar? It's a cone!
This kind of correspondence between the two spaces is really appealing to me, and
is very similar to the mathematical concept of a [moduli space](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Moduli_space)
which I think is awesome.


## What's in your way?

I currently have to finish my vision assignment. It's due next Friday, and I've
already done a decent chunk, but I'd like to get it out of the way as fast as possible
so I can have some time to study for my exam. There's also a few problems to
do for Neitzke, but that's nothing new.

Regarding the exam coming up next week, I'm a bit concerned about the JavaScript
portion. I feel relatively comfortable with Python, but we haven't really gone over
JavaScript too much, so I'll need to read up a little on the past lecture notes
to make sure I understand all the syntax. It's a bit hard to keep the syntax for
both languages straight in my head.

Finally, I still need to learn React.


## What will you do next week?

I think the next week will mostly be me doing my vision assignment and
studying for the upcoming exam. I don't expect anything too radically
different to happen next week. Just the usual work (which is fine by me).


## What's my experience with the class?

I don't have much to add here. It's been smooth sailing for the past couple
of weeks. However, I do wish we covered a bit more JavaScript. Most of the
concepts are taught in Python, and these carry over somewhat smoothly to JavaScript,
but JavaScript feels more like an afterthought. I think alternating between languages
would be a good idea, since I think most people's main concern is just with
remember JavaScript syntax.

## Pick of the week

I've currently been trying [skim](http://skim-app.sourceforge.net) as my default PDF
viewer. It's nothing special, but it has a few conveniences I like. For example,
if the file changes, skim automatically updates it, which helps with LaTex.
I've seen that some people prefer vim + skim as their setup for LaTex, so I might
look into that.
