---
layout: post
title: Week 7 - Exam Week
---

## What did you do the last week?

Most of the last week was spent finishing up my vision assignment and preparing
for the first exam. Overall, I think that the first exam was a good
assessment of what we covered in class. I think that if you understood the
functions we talked about in class and were able to do the HackerRank exercises,
you were probably adequately prepared for the exam. Unfortunately, preparing
for the exam resulted in me putting off some of my other work, so this weekend
will be a bit hectic as I scramble to get things on track again. I think this
week's algebra will be relatively manageable though. The material we're covering
right now involves modules, which are kind of like generalization of vector spaces.
It's a lot of linear algebra, which is great because linear algebra is something
I like a lot, so I'm pretty comfortable working in this setting.  


## What's in your way?

I need to catch up on the stuff I put off to study for the exam. Currently that
involves doing algebra homework, and some Riemannian geometry. There's also
a vision exam next Thurdsay, so I'll need to study for that sometime next week.
If I finish things in a timely manner, I can finally get around to looking at React.
As things currently are, we might end up doing the majority of Phase 2 over
spring break, which is pretty undesirable, so I'll try my best to finish up
my work as soon as possible.

## What will you do next week?

As I said before, there's a vision exam, so I will have to prepare for that.
Other than that, there's nothing too different going on next week. I am looking
forward to going home over spring break though! Unfortunately, I expect that
there will be work to do back home, but it will be good to meet up with
some friends and be with my family.

## What's my experience with the class?

Things have been pretty positive. I think the last exam was pretty fair, and
I appreciate that there was more Python and JavaScript, since we mostly focused
on Python. While Downing was pretty upfront that there would be a pretty
large disconnect between the project and what we would do in class, I still think
it would be nice to go over project related stuff (React, Flask, etc.),
rather than have us learn it all on our own. Don't get me wrong, learning on your
own is valuable in its own right, but it would be nice for lecture to at least
point us in the right direction. That being said, I recall Downing mentioning that
we would go over some database stuff, so this complaint will probably be addressed
soon.  

## Pick of the week

I recently stumbled upon [this lecture](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1wtq5A7VMsA&feature=youtu.be)
regarding applications of cohomology to computer science. I haven't watched the
whole thing yet, but I think it's really cool. My understanding of cohomology is pretty
limited, and restricted to the subset of [De Rham cohomology](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/De_Rham_cohomology).
However, the theory generalizes nicely, and finds uses everywhere in mathematics.
Recently there's been a lot of internal conflict regarding my interests in both
subjects, and I'm having a hard time finding something that works with both.
While many would say that CS academia would be good for someone who likes
both math and CS, I don't usually find the research pretty interesting. The math
involved in CS is usually along the lines of analysis, probability, and logic --
none of which particularly appeal to me. My mathematical interests are mostly in
the realm of geometry and topology, which (from my experience) is much less prevalent,
so it's nice to see some theory that I'm interested in being used in CS.
