---
layout: post
title: Week 11 - Work Work Work
---

## What did you do the last week?

Most of this week was spent working on phase 3. As per usual, we spent maybe a
bit too much time the week before getting caught up on other classes, and
the bulk of the work was pushed back to 4 days before the deadline. Overall,
I don't think we were under that big of a time crunch, and I'm pretty satisfied
with the results. The only difficulty I ended up encountering this phase was
implementing the pagination on the search page. We organized our search page
to have different tabs for each model, which made pagination pretty tricky for me.
A lot of the ideas I had for implementing it weren't working, and with time running
out, I ended up resorting the one of the dumbest solutions possible. Long story short,
I made 3 pagination components (one for each model), and made 2 of them invisible,
based on the active tab. The end result ended up pretty good though, so I guess
I can't complain too much, but the solution seems hacky and unsatisfying.

On the math side, I asked Professor Freed this week if we would be willing
to work on a conference course with me next semester, and he said yes! I took
real analysis with him last year, and really enjoyed it, and he's someone I
admire very much, so I'm very excited to be working with him next semester.
The general plan is to start with [Clifford algebras](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Clifford_algebra)
and the [Spin group](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spin_group), and then see
where we go from there.

## What's in your way?

As of now, I have Riemannian geometry to read, and algebra to do, which seems to
be a common theme judging from past posts. I also want to get started on my vision
assignment early, so I have more time for the upcoming phase.

## What will you do next week?

The plan is to get vision and algebra done early so we can get the next
phase started. That's much easier said than done though, since the work
coming up next week seems pretty substantial. It's been a pretty exhausting
semester overall, but I've almost made it through!

## What's my experience with the class?

I think things are going fine as of now. I'm staring to think that web development
might not be for me at this point, but I think that's more about my own personal
preference rather than a complaint about the course. To me, it feels less
fulfilling than working on something like computer vision or differential geometry.
I also wish the class offered some more material for the frontend developers,
since it seems like most of the material covered in class is more helpful
for the backend. As of now, there's been a lot of tutorials and googling
to figure out how to get things to work properly, and I would have appreciated
some material on React earlier in the semester.

## Tip of the week

The courses schedule came out this Tuesday, so be sure to figure out your
registration time and what classes you want to take next semester.
There are some pretty interesting CS courses being offered this upcoming semester,
and I would highly recommend taking neural networks with Professor Krähenbühl, which
I took last fall, and the quantum information course offered by Professor Aaronson,
which I took last spring.
