---
layout: post
title: Week 4 - Ramping Up
---

## What did you do the last week?

The last week has been pretty packed for me, and it seems like this is what the
equilibrium state will be for me (that is to say, very busy). For SWE, we
finalized our group. By around the second week, I had already found three others, and
this week we finally picked up our fifth member. I had some level of acquaintance
with the first three, and our final member seems to mesh with us pretty well
so that's great. We also decided on a project, and spent most of today doing the
setup (Getting a domain name, setting up AWS, etc), which was a bit of a pain,
but I think we have everything sorted out now.

For vision, I finished up the first assignment and wrote up my report.
At around Monday/Tuesday, I found a pretty serious bug in my algorithm in
which I couldn't resize images past a certain threshold. As it turns out,
I was indexing incorrectly when considering the edges of the image, which
led to index out of bounds errors once the image was sufficiently small.
I guess you could say it was an... edge case (I'll show myself out now).
Luckily for me, I found it relatively quickly, so I didn't have to pull my
hair going down the rabbit hole of debugging.

For math on the other hand, I think I've gone down the rabbit hole, kept digging,
came out the other side, and have been blasted into orbit. In algebra, we've
started discussing algebraic geometry, which many consider one of the most esoteric
subfields of math. While we're only studying what most
mathematicians would consider "classical algebraic geometry," it is by no means
easy, and this weeks homework has been a massive time sink. At it's core,
[algebraic geometry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Algebraic_geometry) is about
studying the zero sets of polynomials and their geometric properties. Yes, I know,
this sounds a lot like the algebra 2 that you took in high school, (in fact,
I constantly joke about the fact that the course is named algebra 2), and yes,
I'm still looking at polynomials, but I'd like to see a high schooler work
with [algebraic varietes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Algebraic_variety).
If you go even deeper, you'll find some mind-bogglingly abstract concepts,
like [schemes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scheme_(mathematics)) and
[sheafs](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sheaf_(mathematics)), which give the
field its reputation for "abstract nonsense."


## What's in your way?

I still have a mountain of math to do. I've done roughly 70% of the algebra
homework and I still have to do some differential geometry problems for Professor
Neitzke, in addition to preparing my talk over vector bundles. Of course,
I need to work on my part of the project for Phase #1 of our website as well.
This week was very busy, and felt a bit overwhelming, but I think I'll make it,
and things should stabilize from now on.

## What will you do next week?

Next week will involve a lot of time dedicated to our newborn website.
I don't have much experience with web development, so there will inevitably
be a lot of reading and tutorials in my near future, but I'm glad that I'll be
picking up the skills I've neglected to learn in the first few years I've been at
UT.

Also -- do I even need to mention that I'll have math homework at this point?


## What's my experience with the class?

So far so good. There's a lot of small details of python that I've picked
up so far, and it's good to have a more complete perspective as to how the
language is designed. One thing about class that I noticed is that there's often
a few people in class every day that raise their hand, but don't speak up
to get Downing's attention, and eventually give up. I don't think that
he would mind, but I think many people (myself included) would feel pretty awkward
interrupting him in the middle of lecture to ask a question.
That being said, I think he's much better about looking up and scanning for
questions than he was a few weeks ago.

## Pick of the week

If you didn't know, UT is home to one of the leading experts on quantum computing,
[Scott Aaronson!](https://www.scottaaronson.com) You might have seen his
[collaboration with SMBC](https://www.smbc-comics.com/comic/the-talk-3), or
stumbled upon his name in an article regarding quantum computing. I took
a class with him last spring, and found it to be a very enriching experience.
The thing that surprised me the most is that the subject isn't as complicated
as the the word "quantum" seems to suggest. With some knowledge of complex
numbers and a familiarity with linear algebra, I think most people could pick up
at least the basics. If you want to learn more, check out [one of his talks](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JvIbrDR1G_c)
or maybe even (pardon the shameless self-promotion) some of the [notes](../files/QuantumComputing.pdf) I compiled
from his class last year. You might find it more approachable than you thought, and who
knows? Maybe 10 or so years down the line we'll all be out of a job when
quantum computers become the next big thing. Now's as good a time as any to get
a leg up on the competition!
