---
layout: post
title: Week 1 - Back to Work
---

## What are your expectations for this course?

I think my expectations for this class are mostly shared by my classmates. I
expect the course to be a good (though somewhat limited-- there's only so much
you can do in a semester) overview of what development would be like in the
real world. Since I have little experience with web development, I think
that this course will be a valuable experience, since it will help me
pick up many of the tools I've neglected to learn, and become more well
rounded as a CS student. I think that it will also teach me the skills
necessary to work well with a group (managing time, communication, organization,
etc.).

## What did you do the last week?

A lot of this week was spent preparing myself mentally for the semester.
I'm taking a pretty heavy course load this semester, with two CS courses
(this one and Computer Vision) as well as two difficult math classes--
Algebraic Structures 2 and a conference course in Riemannian Geometry with
Professor Neitzke. This semester really started quickly on the math front.
I met with Professor Neitzke on Wednesday, and after looking through the
book we planned to work with, gave us 11 exercises regarding Lie groups
and Lie algebras. I will also be presenting a small talk with for the
two other people working with me on Monday, so I've been doing a lot of work
right out of the gate. The other math class is with Professor Keel, who wasted
no time on the first day by having us prove that every finitely generated
abelian group is a direct sum of cyclic groups. I think
his teaching style is pretty similar to Downing. He doesn't really lecture,
but instead asks students to go to the front and walks them through
proving certain theorems. It's pretty intimidating and you have to think on
your feet, which mirrors how Downing calls out students in class. That being
said, I like it a lot, and keeps students a lot more involved in lecture,
which I think is great.

On the CS front, things have started a bit slower. We've mostly gone overview
administrative details and high level concepts in both Software Engineering
and Vision, and the first assignment for Vision is mostly just learning
our way around Matlab. I expect things to pick up rather quickly for both
classes however.

## What's in your way?

I have to finish the first assignment for Vision, which is relatively simple,
but I still have to get acquainted with Matlab. The odd thing is that it
indexes starting at 1, which is odd for the CS side of my brain, but not at
all strange for the math side, which still indexes matrices starting at 1.
Honestly, I'm surprised that I still have these mutually incompatible
indexing conventions, but I have almost never started indexing at 1 while
working on CS and the same goes for indexing starting at 0 for math.

For math, I've already been assigned an algebra homework, and I have yet to
prepare my talk for Monday regarding Lie groups, so there's a lot of reading
to be done.

## What will you do next week?

Next week will be more of the same. I expect the workload for Vision and
Software Engineering to pick up, and there's a lot of reading to do for
Professor Neitzke. I've definitely committed to a heavy schedule, but I'm
looking forward to what the semester will bring. As mentioned before, I will
be giving a small talk on Monday (here's hoping that goes well).

## What's my experience with the class?

As of now, I'm still going off of first impressions, but the course seems
like it will be a lot of fun. I'm not too put off by Downing's style of
calling students out, and I think it will be nice to learn more about
the intricacies of python. It seems like the course and its projects will be a nice breath
of practical knowledge, as opposed to the more contrived nature of the
assignments for most of the other classes I've taken.

## Tip of the week

Don't study math. It will suck up all your time and make you feel
inadequate in ways you wouldn't even think were possible.

On a more serious note, if you're having some trouble setting up your own
blog using Github Pages and Jekyll, you can fork this repository

<https://github.com/barryclark/jekyll-now>

which has most of everything you need, so you won't have to do too much
setup yourself. This is what I did to set up my own blog. Many thanks to the
author for providing a detailed guide and getting a lot of the boilerplate
out of the way.
