---
layout: post
title: Week 5 - Trial by Fire
---

## What did you do the last week?

I spent most of the first half week working on the first phase of the project.
Due to some unfortunate circumstances (namely the most recent algebra homework),
we weren't really able to start the project until Sunday, which was mostly spent
setting up AWS. Monday and Tuesday ended up being a crash course in basic web dev
as I had to learn everything on the fly. This was admittedly somewhat stressful,
but not as bad as I expected it to be. While the next phase will be longer
and more involved, I also think it will be a bit easier for me, since we have a
longer amount of time, which gives me some more flexibility with how I space
out my work. I know a lot of people prefer having shorter projects, since the
extra structure helps motivate them to get things done on time, but I'm pretty
good at managing my time and juggling many responsibilities, so the added flexibility
is welcome.

The math this week was very tough. For algebra, we had an excessively long homework
that was due Monday evening, which was the main hinderance in starting the first phase early.
I had most of it done on Sunday, with only a single part left for Monday, so I thought
I was in the clear. Sadly, this was not to be. I ended up spending roughly 6 hours
slamming my head into the table before I was able to come up with the full proof.

The question?

Classify all $$\mathbb{C}$$-algebras of dimension 3.

I actually found all of them quite early on, but I had a lot of trouble proving that there
weren't any more. Luckily, I was able to fudge around with the algebra to
find the solution with about 20 minutes to spare.

## What's in your way?

I need to learn more about web development. I expect the next phase of the project
to be much more involved, so I'll need to learn more powerful tools than the ones
we used for phase 1. We have also been assigned another vision homework, so I'll need
to find the time to work on that as well.

## What will you do next week?

I'll probably try to knock out the vision assignment early. In addition, I'll be
reading up and working on the next phase of the project, and of course,
math homework.

## What's my experience with the class?

Everything is going relatively smoothly right now. I think that this web project
will be pretty fun and teach me some important skills, and I'm looking forward
to learning more. One gripe I have is that whenever we go over a concept in
both python and javascript, we often gloss over the javascript part. Since I don't
have a lot of javascript experience, I think it would be nice to spend a bit
more time talking about the intricacies of javascript like we do with python,
since there is a lot of coding that needs to be done in javascript for the
web project.

As a side note, I've started picking up some of Downing's phrases. For some reason,
I catch myself saying "wouldn't you agree..." a lot more in the last few weeks.

## Tip of the week

If you're having a more lax semester, this tip probably won't apply to you as much,
but I imagine many CS majors are quite busy and have to juggle several difficult and time consuming classes.

The tip? Take your breaks strategically. Even if you've been working hard for a few
hours straight and think you've earned a break, if you're in the middle of something,
it might set you back to derail yourself to take a break. There have been several
occasions where I stopped to take a break in the middle of something I was working on,
only to waste a lot of time later on just to get back on the same page
I left off on. If you're working on something, maybe spend just a few more minutes
to finish up your idea before you take a break.

Conversely, staring at a bug for a few hours straight might not be the best use of
time either, and sometimes a break is exactly what you need. If you've been stuck
on something (like a proof or a bug that just won't go away), take a break and come
back with a fresh perspective. 
