---
layout: post
title: Week 2 - Getting Settled
---

## What did you do the last week?

This week mostly consisted of getting back into the groove of things.
I met with Professor Neitzke on Monday for our first real meeting, and it
went quite well. I gave my mini-talk on Lie groups and Lie algebras, which
went over pretty well and it led to some nice discussion that was
very enlightening for me. In case you want to see the notes I prepared for it,
you can read them [here](../files/TalkNotes.pdf). I also started the Collatz
project, which involved some trouble setting up TravisCI and the makefile,
but I ended up resolving that somewhat quickly. A lot of my time
this week was spent thinking about algebra, which seems like it might
be my hardest class this semester. Professor Keel moves quite quickly,
and if you miss something, its hard to catch up and understand what he's saying.
That being said, I think the course is a lot of fun. Compared to my CS
classes, the math classes have definitely been faster out of the gate,
so I'm afraid most of the status updates for the first few posts
will mostly be talking about math. With that being said, once we start
working on the web project, I expect that there will be much more to talk
about regarding this course.

## What's in your way?

The first homework was just turned in for the class I'm grading for,
so I have some grading to do this weekend. I also need to implement some
optimizations for the Collatz project so it doesn't time out in the
last HackerRank test case. I've implemented the optimizations from class
and a cache, but I'm still timing out right now, so there's some more
work left for me to do. I also am a little put off by some of the quiz
questions, especially the last one (excluding the attendance quiz). I
will readily admit that I don't think very fast, so trying to figure that problem
out in less than 2 minutes was quite difficult, but I expect to become more
comfortable with the quizzes as time passes. On the math front, there's more reading to do.
I've started working with a graduate student in reading about
[symplectic geometry](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Symplectic_geometry)
which is something I've always wanted to learn, so I'm glad to have
the opportunity.

## What will you do next week?

I need to finish Collatz, but I think I'm almost there so that
shouldn't be that big of a deal. There's the obligatory reading and math
homework that has become a staple of my daily life, and I'll probably
start on the next vision assignment as well. There doesn't appear to
be much on the horizon for me, so I think the next couple weeks will just
be more of the same, which isn't necessarily a bad thing.

## What's my experience with the class?

I think that so are, the class is pretty nice. I like how Downing
walks students through a lot of the logic, and takes the time
to explain details thoroughly. As much as I like Keel's class,
his style of lightning fast lecture isn't for everyone. It's really
easy to get left in the dust, as a lot of things that are obvious
to him aren't obvious to us, so I definitely appreciate the effort
Downing makes to keep us in the fold.

## Tip of the week

Even if you're not the most mathematically inclined, I'd highly
recommend delving a little bit into algebra, especially if you're interested
in cryptography, where a lot of the concepts have
their roots in group theory. I think most CS majors only end up taking calculus and
linear algebra, which I think is a bit of a shame. Obviously, I'm very biased
in this respect, but I think the idea of thinking about symmetries
and the algebraic structure of certain objects helps one better understand
the relationships between things, and makes one comfortable with abstraction,
(If you took Dr. Gheith's OS class you're probably sick of this term)
which is an extremely helpful skill to have. If my spiel has convinced you, or at
least piqued your interest, consider [this book](https://www.amazon.com/Book-Abstract-Algebra-Second-Mathematics/dp/0486474178/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1517032301&sr=8-1&keywords=pinter+algebra)
which I think is a very approachable and entertaining read. It's not structured
like a textbook, and often feels like the author is telling a story rather
than rattling off theorems and proofs. In addition, if you like puzzles,
abstract algebra is right up your alley.
