---
layout: post
title: Week 10 - Cruising Along
---

## What did you do the last week?

This week was not particularly eventful. We discussed the third phase of the project,
and will be knocking that out by next Thursday. Regarding vision, I finished
all the hard coding parts, and all that's left is to create some examples
of my work in action to submit. This assignment involved warping two images
into each other, much like how your phone can stitch together a panorama
from two different images that share content. There was a lot of tricky
details I had to manage, but overall, it wasn't too bad.

Regarding math, there isn't too much new either. We've been marching
through Riemannian geometry at a relatively quick pace, and by
the end of the semester, we will have covered a significant chunk
of material. I'm considering asking a professor to something
similar next semester, as it allows me to explore deeper into
some branches of math that I might not be able to in the undergraduate
(or even graduate) courses here. In algebra, we've been going into Galois
theory, which isn't something I expected to like, but it's actually pretty cool.
It's claim to fame is proving that there is no formula to solve a
quintic equation. You're probably familiar with the quadratic formula,
which can be used to find roots to any degree 2 polynomial, but you might
not know that analogous formulas exist for cubics and quartics (although they're
very long and unwieldy). However for degree 5 and above, it's been proven
that no such formula can exist. In a nutshell, Galois theory explores
the symmetries of algebraic objects called [field](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Field_(mathematics)).
Examples of such things are the rational numbers $$\mathbb{Q}$$, the real
numbers $$\mathbb{R}$$, and the complex numbers $$\mathbb{C}$$

## What's in your way?

I need to do some more reading for Monday, and I need to do some work on
the frontend for phase 3 of our project. There's a few new UI elements that
need to be added for sorting, filtering, and sorting, but I think most of
the work this phase will need to be done in the backend. We're not using
Flask-Restless, so we're going to need to use SQL queries and do things ourselves.

## What will you do next week?

I imagine most of next week will be spent working on phase 3. However, there
are a few things that I will need to start considering. The course schedule comes
out next week, so I will need to start planning my schedule for next semester.
Currently the plan is to take 2 CS courses (as of now I'm considering graphics
and programming languages) and 2 math classes, and maybe something else (like
government). I've had a terrible habit my time here in packing my schedule full
of difficult classes (a consequence of wanting to learn too much), and not having
much free time, so I will try my best to resist the urge of taking every interesting
class I see.

Finally, since I've been participating in the Directed Reading Program (a
math program to pair undergraduates with grad students to explore math),
I will have to give a presentation at the end of the semester. Since the
end of the semester is not that far away, I will need to start preparing
a presentation. My hope is to be able to talk about [Kähler manifolds](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kähler_manifold).

## What's my experience with the class?

As usual, no complaints. I appreciate the work we're doing with SQL, which
will be especially helpful for this phase (even more so for my team, since
we won't be using Flask-Restless). I also have come to enjoy these blogs, as
it gives me a way to reflect on what I did the last week, and think about what lies
ahead, which is something I did not do too much prior to this class.

## Tip of the week

Get a [debugger ducky!](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rubber_duck_debugging)
There have been countless situations in which I have been stuck for hours
on something, only to find my error by iterating through my logic out loud.
I'm also a huge advocate for talking to inanimate objects, but in this case
an animate one will do too. The next time you're stuck, grab a rubber duck,
a stuffed animal, or an actual person and walk through your
thought process. You'll be surprised what you can uncover this way.
