---
layout: post
title: Week 3 - More of the Same
---

## What did you do the last week?

I finished the Collatz project early this week. As it turns out, switching
to a recursive method almost halved the time needed to compute cycle lengths!
It wasn't immediately obvious, but my approach for caching values in
the iterative approach required about double the work, since it needed to retrace
some of the steps. Once that was sorted out, it was mostly just bookkeeping and
formatting stuff before the project was done. I think it was a good way of getting
us introduced to some of the tools we'll be using in the rest of the class.

I also started my vision assignment, which I think is pretty cool. The idea is that when
you resize an image to be smaller, you often distort a lot of the important structures. We were
tasked with implementing the solution, which involved carving out seams of "unimportant"
pixels which were then to be deleted. We used gradient information to determine which
pixels were important. For example, pixels in areas with more prominent changes in
intensity were left untouched.

There's also the ever present reading and work for math, but I think I've talked
enough about that in my first two posts.


## What's in your way?

I finished the bulk of the vision assignment, but there's still a few odds and ends
that need to be addressed (e.g. preparing the writeup, creating examples of my
implementation in action, etc.). I also need to find one or two more people
for my group for Project 2, which is coming up soon. I currently have found
3 other people to work with, so we need 1-2 more to satisfy the 5-6 team size
requirement. If you're reading this and you're interested, you can send me an
email (check the bottom of the page), or if you're the lucky person that is
required to read my post (and happen to be in the 11-12 section), you can bring
it up on Piazza!


## What will you do next week?

I expect Project 2 details will be released next Monday, and Downing mentioned
that there would be some things coming up in Piazza about finding team members,
so I expect that there will be a lot of work next week related to Project 2,
whether that be doing actual coding, or just getting acquainted with the team
and setting up methods of communication and brainstorming web project ideas.

The Monday after the upcoming one is also my turn to present again, so I'll
have to prepare something next week. I got lucky again, since the subject I will
most likely be presenting will be something I like a lot -- [vector bundles](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vector_bundle).
Intuitively, a vector bundle is a smooth manifold (think of a blob sitting in Euclidean space)
that looks like we attached a vector space to each point of another manifold. Think of
a cylinder, it looks like we have attached a copy of $$\mathbb{R}$$ to each point
of the circle. The cylinder is an example of a _trivial bundle_, it is literally
the Cartesian product $$\mathbb{R} \times S^1 $$. Other vector bundles
might be more interesting. Locally, they look like a Cartesian product, but
globally, there might be some twisting involved. A good example of this
would be the [Möbius strip](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/6/66/Mobius_strip_illus.svg/300px-Mobius_strip_illus.svg.png), which definitely is not a cylinder, but if
we zoom in enough, it is indistinguishable from a cylinder.

Whew! that's a bit much if you're not that math inclined. I apologize for getting
carried away.

## What's my experience with the class?

I think my overall experience is pretty pleasant. I'm still not 100% on top of
the daily quizzes (which seems to be a relatively common sentiment), but I
expect things to get better as I become more acquainted with the intricacies of
python, which is usually where Downing catches me on the quizzes. Overall, things
are going pretty smoothly I think. I can't say that the course is the most exciting
one I'm taking this semester, but that doesn't mean it's bad by any means. Things
don't need to be exiting to be useful or pleasant.


## Tip of the week

Learn from doing. A lot of times when I want/need to learn something new, be it
a new programming language, a new subject, or just some arbitrary skill, I often
get intimidated at the scale of what I need to learn. This often discourages me
from getting started, and makes the whole task of learning something new feel insurmountable.
Instead of thinking like that, why not just start doing the thing you were planning on
learning? I took this approach to learning python a few years ago. I had some programming
task I wanted to accomplish, and decided I would do it entirely in python. I ended up
picking up most of my current python knowledge on a need-to-know basis. Don't know
the python equivalent to something you know in Java? Look it up! No one starts
learning something by figuring everything out at once -- [just do it!](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZXsQAXx_ao0)
